Ultra nationalist Israelis are Marching
through occupied East Jerusalem as part
of their so-called Flag Day celebration
St Marks Israel's illegal occupation of
the area after the
1967 war crowds have made incursions
into the AL AXA Moss compound in recent
years thousands of people have joined
the March through the city waving flags
enchanting racist
slogans these are the latest pictures
from inside the alaxa MOs
compound it shows Israeli forces
detaining a Palestinian
man well just a reminder Benjamin
netanyahu's cabinet has banned Al jazer
from reporting in Israel which is why uh
we're joined by Sarah Kat in the
Jordanian Capital Aman Sarah good to see
you not an easy day to be a Palestinian
in occupied East Jerusalem uh especially
given Israel's warn Gaza I believe we
can show you some of the latest pictures
coming to us from Damascus gate uh in uh
occupied East Jerusalem uh there you can
see this is in the last sort of 10
minutes or so uh Sarah remind us why
this is such a contentious day uh for so
many
Palestinians well as you said there
you're seeing them outside Damascus gate
that is the main gate it's one of
several entrances into the old city and
it's also been a flash point
historically for uh violence from a far
right Ultra nationalist youth movements
uh as well as uh settlers Israeli
settlers um and this time they're going
through as one of the pathways through
the Muslim uh quarters where a lot of
the Palestinian shopkeepers are people
go and buy their fruit they buy their
clothes from there as Palestinians and
we've already seen violence in the last
few hours a lot of journalists uh were
attacked including local Israeli uh
journalists as well as activists that
had been attacked by some of those young
settlers you can see they're very young
some of them as young as nine and 10 and
mostly teenagers uh they've also been
chanting uh some really uh racist and
insightful slogan saying death to the
Arabs and that also they refer to
Palestinians as that and also if I take
you back to
2021 this was the precursor that flag
March which ended up in a war where uh
Israel had attacked Hamas and that was
because Hamas had fired Rockets angry at
this flag March it's also a symbolic
really especially with what's going on
the occupation that Palestinians
especially in occupied East Jerusalem as
well as the occupied West Bank are
living under just to give you a sense of
how it is for Palestinians for example
today many Palestinians have been
arrested and often it's because they are
trying to protect their shops they're
trying to protect uh their produce and
their uh the things they are selling
from vandalism by these Israelis but
also you see that they are often stopped
from entering into the old city
especially if they young male
Palestinians and given the context of
this war Israel for Israeli forces have
been massively clamping down especially
at a time when you have farite ministers
like itamar benav speaking on local
radio this morning encouraging Israel to
turn up and join this Mark March rather
tens of thousands of Israelis usually
take part waving the flags it's not
clear how many are going to be turning
up today but I one would expect a lot of
them will especially as this sense of
nationalism is happening during this war
on Gaza and SAR I just want to remind
our viewers uh normally you would be at
those uh at the March reporting for Al
jazer but because Al jazer has been
banned from inside Israel by the
Netanyahu government you are reporting
in
Jordan okay let's take a closer look at
the history of Jerusalem back in 1949 at
the end of the Arab Israeli War the city
was divided into two areas west
Jerusalem had been Israeli territory
since 1948 and the majority of people
who live there were Jews East Jerusalem
and its majority Palestinian population
came under Jordanian rule but in 1967
Israel captured East Jerusalem along
with the rest of the West Bank after the
Arab Israeli War of
1967 more than 300,000 Palestinians were
displaced East Jerusalem is still
occupied by Israel while Palestinians
demand it should be their future Capital
meanwhile the rest of the occupied West
Bank illegal Israeli settlements account
for about 40% of the area Israel has
built
over 340 illegal settlements and
outposts since
1967 effectively cutting off Palestinian
communities let's speak now to sapir
slka amran she's an activist and a human
rights lawyer she joins us now from Tel
Aviv thank you so much for your time how
provocative a move is this do you think
to allow this flag march to take place
today given what's happening in
Gaza yeah thank you for having me I
think it's always provocative doing it
for years but this year I think there's
a direct intention to set fire um so I
think bang and the rest of the rightwing
experienced ministers H what they're
doing right now is to try to do as much
as they can by any means H to stop the
hostage deal and to stop the ceasefire
promoted by Biden and others and the
demanding of the Israeli Society to stop
the war and and I think they're using
this parade and using the route going
inside the mesos gate inside um The Old
City and confronting and using violence
against
Palestinians um to to to escalate the
situation so they would have an excuse
to continue the war um and yeah and we
can see that they're doing it by morning
and I know that BV announced that is
going to H even though it's not part of
the route of the parade they're going to
insist of going to ACTA and pray there
which is to say that by by the way that
I see religion and by farabic rabbis the
leading sporadic rabbis it is forbidden
for Jews right now to go and pray and AA
and they're still doing it because they
can and they consider theel as the
landlords as they say so they came to
prove a lesson to the Palestinians right
now today uh so the point you're making
is I mean Jerusalem has stayed
relatively calm I would say in
comparison to other parts of the country
o over the recent period so the aim is
here of the far right to deliberately to
raise tensions in this part of the of
the area yeah yeah and they're saying it
clearly they're saying we want to show
them that we were in charge we want to
show them that we are the landlords it's
because we were quiet and didn't do all
all kinds of actions in Jerusalem in
other cities to to not escalate the
situation this fact became the
escalation of the situation so now
they're saying we need to be harder to
use more force and more violence and to
show that we are the landlords as they
say and for them to for for that will be
any kind of clashes and then you know
the attention will go to the clashes in
Jerusalem instead of talking about the
war the hostage did and instead of
talking about how this right-wing
extremist government is the worst
government that was ever been in Israel
and talking about the protest against
right now by Israelis you mentioned you
mentioned that ceasefire deal uh which
is currently on the table presented by
the US president a few days ago how do
you feel the majority of Israelis
actually view this deal do they do the
majority of them actually want this war
to end or do they support the
government's narrative which is it can't
end until Hamas is completely destroyed
I think people understand now you know
when when the war started there was all
these slogans in Tel Aviv in all over
Israel a big sign saying we will win
together now after eight eight months
people started saying we're not going to
win this war there's not going to be any
chance that we're going to win because
no one can win in a war actually but in
this specific War we already lost in 17
October and what we're doing right now
is going again to Gaza to places that
will occupied before by the Army when
soldiers were killed there and hostages
were killed there and then Hamas took
over these places again and now they're
fighting again and there are more
soldiers dying again in the same
territory and I think more people are
realizing it now and realizing that they
can't count on this government to lead
them politically and and I think more
people including families of the
hostages including people that used to
support the right wing or still support
One Wing saying this war is for the
Existence not of the Jewish Nation it's
for the continue and sustainability and
existence of the right-wing government
and talking about a hostage deal bank
and the rest of his political party they
announced that they are objecting the
hostage deal they're objecting of
finishing the war and to to ceasefire
and they we leave the government and if
they will leave the Coalition that mean
that will go to an election so this is
this is the political situation right
now on the table and I think even Biden
say it in a way okay um that that that
he thinks that it's for the government
and just to say for me I I don't want to
be a landlord I want to live here in
equality with the Palestinians here I
don't want to be the landlord I know
that there are people that are
protesting Israelis against those
actions today I hope that more people
will join us and and I really hope that
we will be in a POS position that we can
talk about a different future and not
just to talk about this ongoing war and
and and the the minister of debt
promoting it okay I appreciate your time
and speaking to us on aler super SL
amran activist and human rights lawyer
speaking to us there from Tel
Aviv thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from alaz